(INFO:930)AGENDA.TXT - Agendas for the Tymcom-X Support Group meetings.

-------- << 19-Aug-87 minutes >> --------


-------- << 12-Aug-87 minutes >> --------

0.  PJOBN is only 7 bits wide.  Thus D56 will not really work with 160
    jobs and we will have to wait for future development.

1.  Weekend Fires
    A.  Carl - Westin Hotels in Seatle, FE cannot load monitor...
	FE should be trying to isolate what appears to be sporatic disk
	or RH interrupts rather than bringing up the system.
    B.  Osman & Lenny - NIS in Cupertino, apparent RH problem turned out
	to be a problem with a power supply.  Diagnosed by Osman and Lenny
	and left to the FE to get the part and finish up.  Osman followed
	up with the district manager.

2.  Monitor release /C, documentation and updates
    A.  DOCs done except for final review.
    B.  ASP and DSKCLN changes not in document.  A separate document will
	be prepared due to the significant changes.  Fremont now using the
	new asp %7 on all systems.
    C.  Discussion of some documentation items... how to mention 32 vs 64
	disk capability.  [Joe to revise].
    D.  /C runnng everywhere in Fremont except B39.  Dallas waiting for DOCs.

2.5) Future additions
    A.  Inactivity timeout, system wide command given by operator
    B.  Revision of many monitor generated messages to CTY/OPR
	1.  Watchdog timer (Suggested GETTAB entry to set storage limit)
	2.  THUNG messages not always logges to CTY
	3.  BAD SAT reports

3.  Computing Resources
    A.  2020 "DD" now has 3 working RP06s.  After 5 tapes a full DSKCLN
	was run and FMUP errors occurred.  Joe will investigate before we
	continue with the rebuild on "DD".  Possible SPAGES problems.
    B.  KI/KL base in Fremont Data Center... working on it... soon!!!
    C.  uNet - Map complete, meeting with Dennis on Thursday 8/13.

4.  Excess hardware
    Vax 11/750 to be delivered to Nicholson Lane, Thursday...
    Determine what is needed to connect to uNet (DUP-11 says Corbett).

5.  Course outline for FSCO and Operations training
    Still in progress.  Tentative course date, end of September.  Much
    depends on how much time we have to devote to preparation and the move
    to South Bay Center.

6.  Move of Hardware to Nicholson
    Monday    24th: De-install power and machines
    Tuesday   25th: De-install machines complete
    Wednesday 26th: Move equipment and power to Nicholson

    Library - Dennis and Carl to pack
    Hallway - To be packed during the backups (if boxes available)
    KL-10   - Osman to pack

7.  TRW Add-Pack operation
    Joe to try to put together an ADD-PACK dry run using "DD".
    It appears the TRW date is the 20th.  We will still be up and running.

8.  MDCIS War
    It appears that there are two factions... one in St. Louis that believes
    the initial estimates and recommendations of Angela and Carl... to do the
    billing implementation and keep the business in St. Louis, and one that
    is pushing to move the applications to TYMCOM-X in Dallas to pick up the
    extra business (expected to be lost after the conversion) by getting paid
    to do the conversion.  The higher-ups are leaning toward the billing
    conversion.

9.  Organizational change
    Curt Miller now reports to Bill Kersten, in charge of Tymnet technical
    support and product support.

10. SUBMIT-XEXEC
    Final review of documentation and testing of current software is underway
    by Dennis and Carl.  Carl has put a new "shared" version of SUBMIT on SYS
    on system 930.  Some bug fixes are expected and if no problems crop up, a
    general release of this version will take place 9/1.




-------- << 03-Aug-87 minutes >> --------

1.  TrainNet
    A.  F3s  - interested in connecting to TrainNet  (Grandey and King)
    B.  2020 - interestd in connection (TXS)

    Grandey said that their refusal was based on the reported cost of
    future maintenance and their lack of floor space.  They are interested
    in some arrangement, including a leased line to Nicholson Lane with a
    Micro Engine connection into our microNode network.  We should be able
    to provide connectivity to one or both F3s and one of the 2020s via an
    extra DR11-C board (when we get the ABLE DUAL-DR board repaired).

    What we may be able to get out of the deal is access to a private net
    in which to do some development work on DEC interfaced products.  For
    example, the PDP-10 base, ethernet/LAN connection or HASP/3780 to DEC.

2.  Status of /C monitor release
    A.  D56 with 160 jobs and 200 ports under /C
	Carl suggested testing jobs greater than 127 to see if it works.
	Joe is going to check the field size of the PJOBN DDB pointer.
    B.  D25 and D56 will be possible staging systems n Dallas
    C.  Joe has nearly completed the documentation and STOPCD document.
	It is under review by Craig, Carl and Osman for comments and any
	corrections.
    D.  All of Fremont is running /C except for system B39.

3.  Review of /D monitor release ( What to put into /D )
    A.  Performance changes
	1.  Close without wait, Validate RIB without wait (TITO speedup)
	2.  SYSDVF function to read an entire GETTAB table
	3.  Contiguious file page creation (without double charging)
	4.  Virgin page bit for .CHMFP/.CHSMP chanio calls (ASP speedup)
    B.  SUBMIT-XEXEC changes
	1.  Exit in child indication
	2.  Enable/Disable for individual licenses
	3.  Batch job indicator
    C.  Once only changes
	1.  REFSTR for the 2020s (in /B06 and /X01)
	2.  INITIA and NOINITIA startup flags
	3.  Implementation of .DSKCLN and INITIA at startup
    D.  Security
	1.  HR license (Home Read)
	2.  SETE -1 for TITO operator license
	3.  SETE command in the monitor (see ENABLE/DISABLE)
    E.  Accounting
	1.  Batch job indicator, deferred charges
    F.  Host/Base fixes
	1.  SCNSER improvements
	2.  Eliminate crashes when Base is reset
	3.  Eliminate crashes as seen on system B39
    G.  Segment modifications
	1.  Non 400000 high segments, via segment start address table
	2.  EXE files for full mapping capability
	    a.  SAV files expanded to C-O-W pages
	    b.  SHR files marked R-O or C-O-W if SETUWP enabled
	    c.  SWR files marked R-W for all pages
	    d.  Monitor able to produce R-W or C-O-W/private pages
	3.  WSAVE command to create .SWR and .LOW (until full EXE)
    H.  2020 specific changes
	1.  Fixup the LOAD PREBOOT areas for SMFILE and SMMON

4.  Congratulations to both Joe and Carl for placing #1 in each of their
    respective TYMNET training classes.

5.  Weekend Fires
    D37 crashes caused by a missing patch.  Joe installed the patch after
    diagnosing that it was the same problem he saw on D57 and developed
    INTKIL.PAT to fix a problem that cropped up since /P.

6.  Ranier Bank fire
    MR, ZM didn't clear the bad parity problem.
    2020 booting the diagnostic monitor clears some registers that MR will
    not clear and that solved their problem.

7.  Move update for Nicholson and the machine move
    A.  Nicholson ready except for power.  Schedule is to take the power out
	of Liberty on July 24-25 and install on 25-26 at Nicholson.
    B.  Machines to de-install the same 2 days to be moved on Wednesday.
    C.  Leased line to be installed August 14th.  Modems to arrive by same.

8.  Excess hardware, new hardware
    A.  Training wants the uVax and LN03 back (eventually).
    B.  A VT100 is available for $0 book value, we've asked for it.
    C.  Do we consider the F3s as excess or connect them?
	The current theory is to keep them, at least until the 2020s have
	proven themselves worthy of replacing the F3s.  Parity errors 4x
	a day do not make for a dependable machine.
    D.  Vax 11/780 in St. Louis scheduled for 135 Nicholson.
    E.  Vax 11/750 in Cypress scheduled for St. Louis.
	We may see both as part of the remote diagnostics project.

9.  Micro-Net TXSNET configurations and planning
    A.  With changes for TrainNet and such, all the changes are made.
    B.  We are waiting on Dennis Ernst and possibly locating DR-11 cables.

10. Comments on 90842 DEC Software Support via Dispatch
    Some comments, mostly typographical in nature were expessed.

11. NAD fire
    As per requests from Doug Ellenberg and investgation by Carl and Joe
    it seems that WF on (SYS)NAD and HFon (SOURCE)NAD are both pretty bad
    security problems allowing users to clobber any file on the system or
    file in the SOURCE directory.  Both files now have RF until further
    action (to be discussed on 9/3) is considered.

12. FSCO training for operators and FSCO site engineers
    Initially scheduled for late August gives a week to work up a plan.
    We still need to decide who is going to teach what to whom.  A meeting
    is to be held later to discuss what needs to be done.

    Of note... one group whats to learn how to use the PDP-10 as part of an
    SBI issue.  However, their intent is possibly too trivial to entertain.


-------- << 01-Jul-87 minutes >> --------

-- Old Business --

1)  /B10 "The Reliable Monitor"
    F appears to have been fixed.  (MTCOPY test still pending).
    Everyone agreed that /B10 was reliable.  We would wait until 8-Jul-87
    before starting the /C process of distribution.

2)  B39 Ran with /B08 three days, now running with /B10
    Note: As of 6/30 19:21, it is running /P-16.

    o   Only base related stopcodes have been seen.  However, since it is
	is still crashing, the monitor was rolled back.
    o   Action item: try changing the configuration to standard and retry
	using /B10.
    o   In /Cxx maybe redo SCNSER and use B39 as the portal system.

3)  Resources
     a)  20/20
	 o   Disk cables have arrived, need installation.
	 o   Now that tape unit will not work in PE (1600 bpi) mode.

     b)  BLDG C's test system
	 o   Nodes and base to go away by mid-late July.  (See c below)

     c)  Fremont test system
	 o   Bill Fischer appears to agree to the idea, details need to
	     be worked out with Richardson and IPC.  It appears we may be
	     up and running in Fremont by mid July.

4)  AR/ARX parity checking.
    o   It was agreed that it would be reasonable to enable the feature and
	and that this is a good first item to coordinate with Richardson
	first.

5)  Ed Roop
    o   No information about this topic in my notes.


-- New Business --

1)  Now that we have /B10, what needs to go into M33 sources next?
2)  Giving seminars to operation and FSCO personnel:
     a) How can we be more affective than just giving 2hrs of
        seminars every month?


-------- << 01-Jul-87 agenda >> --------

-- Old Business --

1)  /B10 "The Reliable Monitor"
2)  B39 Ran with /B08 three days, now running with /B10
     Note: As of 6/30 19:21, it is running /P-16
3)  Resources
     a)  20/20
     b)  BLDG C's test system
     c)  Fremont test system
3)  
-- New Business --

1)  Now that we have /B10, what needs to go into M33 sources next?
2)  Giving seminars to operation and FSCO personnel:
     a) How can we be more affective than just giving 2hrs of
        seminars every month?

-------- << 24-Jun-87 minutes >> --------
-------- << 24-Jun-87 agenda >> --------

-- Old Business --

1) Computing resources

2) .... 

-- New Business --

1) Monitor Distribution
   a) /B08
   b) FTACFC STOPCD
   c) Running KL-10's with AR/ARX PE enabled

2) "Special Events" meeting at Fremont D. C.

-- Information --

1) Monitor
   a) B39 would not run /B06
   b) Telecopy fails when monitor is generated with some number of ports


-------- << 17-Jun-87 minutes >> --------

-- Old Business --

1)  Review /B06 status
    o   BPXKON search bug fixed by checking length of list properly
    o   CPXKON problems with command list length also fixed
    o   Discussion on propagation of /B06
	3 additional systems in Fremont this week, remainder next week.
	If no problems by 7-July, distribute /B06 as P035/C.

2)  Review computing resources status
    a)  Swing machine (CUP-C)
	3675s are up, but system isn't up yet.
	Locks on building changed, card-key system removed.

    b)  Foonly F3
	System 934/930 now available for use.  Needs disk reformatting
	and verification that that is all that is wrong.  Good idea to
	send "both" F3 systems to TYMNET training to back each other up
	and to provide a running system for us while our machines are
	in transit to Nicholson Lane.

    c)  2020 MR4257
	o   Tape drive problem BOT/EOT resolved.
	o   RH11 cable found as problem, new cable ordered.
	o   2 RP06s formatted and heads aligned.
	o   3rd RP06 to be worked on today, needs power supply.
	o   4th RP06 needs complete overhaul and will be looked at by
	    Lenny to be fixed in the future.

    d)  KI in Fremont
	o   Space will be available when 38s old disks are moved.  We
	    can probably put 1 row of disks and KI in part of that area.
	o   Some co-ordination / negotiation with Bill Fischer needed.

3)  Move to South Bay Center
    What is the time frame between late August and early September?
    o   Tentative schedule to be posted:
	Bubb Road to move by July 12
	Valley Green to move by late August
	Fremont Liberty to move between Valley Green and Orchard Pkwy
	Orchard Pkwy to move by early September

    Judy Carlson will contact us to fix a time to come and talk to us
    about our telephone line needs, internal and external.

    Bookcases and Lateral files will need to be emptied and boxed ahead
    of time to allow a contractor to static spray the items to match the
    new furniture at the new site.

    Desks and other furniture will be provided by us at Nicholson site.

    Craig to distribute minutes of South Bay planning meetings instead
    of J. Duckett.



-- New Business --

1)  System 38 post mortem results
    o   Good idea to have post mortem meetings, more in the future.
    o   No one had anything better to say about what we could have done
	different in regards to the rebuild-rebuild effort.
    o   Rick Daniels repetedly complimented our group's actions and
	responsiveness during the rebuilds.

2)  SETOP Meeting results
    Scaled down version of the elaborate plan planned.  We decided to
    make the new SETOP meet as many of the new requirements as possible
    with the least amount of effort, due to the potential lifespan of
    the PDP-10 TYMCOM-X product offering.

3)  Strategic planning for PDP-10 future
    This item turned into a >>rathole<< and was eventually deferred to
    a separate meeting scheduled for Friday, 19-Jun-87 13:00.
    Disk reliability issues to be taken up as part of the Friday meeting.

    a)  Best efforts to produce visible reliability
    b)  Regroup tasks by results of cost/benefit analysis
    4)  Disk Reliability issues
	a)  DSKCLN document
	b)  Disk initialization:  PAKCOP, MONITOR, REFSTR
	c)  System initialization: BOOTS, MONITOR, ONCE
	d)  TWICE?

5)  XEXEC/EXECX - SUBMIT testing and new version release
    The lack of follow-through on the testing of the current release of
    the product running on system 930 was mentioned.  A realistic testing
    of XEXEC/EXECX is scheduled to be completed by next week.  Joe and
    Dennis are to be involved testing previous complaints by users.

6)  Freeze on monitor development: Designate applications that require
    development in order to bring them up to the proper revision levels.
    This topic really involves keeping Carl and Joe busy working on the
    monitor related CUSPs instead of the monitor during the propagation
    phase of P035/B06 in order to release a "reliable" P035/C monitor.

    The following utilities need work:
    a)  LOGINN - EXECX waiting for run loginn/init in child frame
    b)  TAKEIT - Run properly in all monitor startup modes
    c)  DSKCLN - Messages corrected and made human readable.
    d)  SYSTAT - Properly distributed for 365x disks.
    e)  ASP    - Verified in production, development on restore reliability.
    f)  CHKPNT - Take over the task of unshutting the system from INITIA.
    g)  INITIA - Allow DSKCLN and CHKPNT to do their own tasks.
    h)  TITO   - Investigate SETE -1 to restore files with license.
    i)  PAKCOP - Merge for various flavors of disks.
    j)  BOOTS  - Add "smarts" to make it better and faster.
    k)  SOUPR  - SOUP: CAM & FED, SOUPR or SMERGE for monitor building.
    l)  MONED  - Newer MONED, MONED1 capability and design!!!

7)  Files disappearing on system 58.  *.SHR from some directories.
    - Suspected that operations deleted them during the conversion.

8)  Operations Seminars - Contact Rick Daniels for topics by end of week.
    How to contact a consultant?,  New memo by Craig.
-------- << 17-Jun-87 agenda >> --------

-- Old Business --

1)  Review /B06 status

2)  Review computing resources status
    a)  Swing machine (CUP-C)
    b)  Foonly F3
    c)  2020 MR4257
    d)  KI in Fremont

3)  Move to South Bay Center
    What is the time frame between late August and early September?

-- New Business --

1)  System 38 post mortem results

2)  Disk Reliability issues
    a)  DSKCLN document
    b)  Disk initialization:  PAKCOP, MONITOR, REFSTR
    c)  System initialization: BOOTS, MONITOR, ONCE
    d)  TWICE?

3)  SETOP Meeting results

4)  Strategic planning for PDP-10 future
    a)  Best efforts to produce visible reliability
    b)  Regroup tasks by results of cost/benefit analysis

5)  XEXEC/EXECX - SUBMIT testing and new version release

6)  Freeze on monitor development: Designate applications that require
    development in order to bring them up to the proper revision levels.
    a)  LOGINN - EXECX waiting for run loginn/init in child frame
    b)  TAKEIT - Run properly in all monitor startup modes
    c)  ...

-------- << 10-Jun-87 minutes >> --------

1)  Old business

    a)  Report on changes to systems 31 and 58

	31: Running generic /B01 on a KL since Thursday 4-Jun-87 after
	    encountering additional processor problems on the KI.
	    The monitor is a copy of a KL monitor patched to say F31.

	58: Downgraded to 2 strings of 3675s without any noticeable
	    problems reported.  Now running on 14 spindles even though
	    the equivalent storage would have required 17 before the
	    downgrade.
	    Running /B03-3 from system F29, patched to say F58.

    b)  Report on status of /B06

	/B06 was created as specified from the /B03 monitor backing out
	the new features added in /B04 and /B05 but keeping the source
	changes corresponding to the DDT patches for bug fixes.

	o   Apparently, /B06 has the same problem demonstrated with /B05 on
	    system 32:  TELECOPY doesn't work properly.
	o   A new twist however, is that a system with less than 78 jobs
	    exhibits this problem, while the same code configured for 78 or
	    more jobs appears to work correctly.  {{strange}}
	o   Block-IO problems are suspect, but unproven until we can perform
	    further testing on a KI/KL system in the data centers.
	o   Possible position dependent or size dependent code problem.
	o   Restriction: No monitors to be built for less than 80 jobs.
	o   Work to continue on BPXKON search error problem for /B06 /B07.

	Osman to gather data to build a table showing the propagation and
	deployment status of current and future monitors to all systems.

    c)  Report on KI/KL for our use

	o   It appears that Dallas may be able to supply a truly TEST system
	    but would want to be able to swap out hardware with little or
	    no real notice.
	o   Fremont has room in the I/O room to put a KI for our use, but
	    again, it will probably be taken out of commission with little
	    or no notice depending on problems.  Osman is going to check out
	    the possibilities.
	o   In CUP-C, the Ampex disk drives are gone, and Paul is working on
	    bringing up a string of Memorex drives.  Osman will check.

    d)  For the 2020: KS sn# MR4257
	o   An intermittant RH11 problem.
	    Even when it fails, it only partially fails!
	o   RP06 tester is coming to check head alignment this week.
	    Lenny is interested in learning how it works and using it to
	    go through the motions on getting the 4th RP06 working.
	o   Still waiting on tape BOT/EOT sensor parts.  They have been
	    ordered by John Healy.
	o   Osman is going to work with Healy as much as possible to get the
	    heads aligned and packs formatted.  Also to track down the RH11
	    problem.  The cable is suspect.  See comic strip on 2020!



-------- << 10-Jun-87 minutes continued>> --------

-- New Business --

1)  Pick actions to improve center reliability:  Fremont Data Center
    ref:  Bill Fischer's  2-June memo

    o   Seminars for operations:
>>	Osman will talk to Rick Daniels about seminars and teaching.

    o   Get IPC more involved in the decision making about monitor
	changes and enhancements.

2)  Consolidate 62 and 930
    Work has begun using the swing hardware in CUP-C to make a single
    system of the files on systems 62 and 930.  When completed, this will
    be put on the 2020 3-pack RP06 system in Fremont Liberty.  No further
    progress can be made until we have the Memorex disks online in CUP-C.

3)  Review Ed Roop consolidation memo and assign tasks.
    o   Discussion about more than 32 disks and 112K virgin monitor code.
	There is currently a definate tradeoff between the number of disks
	and the number of jobs.  With 64 disks, we can support 64 jobs.
    o   Some idea about multiple controllers, and multiple CPU's each with
	one string of disks online at a time, able to address the others
	if necessary.
    o   Joe and Carl to make written comments about the disk usage so that
	proper recommendations can be made as part of the consolidation
	study for TYMNET.
    o   Carl to talk with Landa and determine exactly what is expected of
	us for the threshold numbers being requested.
    o   (Open) Document the monitor changes already made, and what needs to
	be done to the monitor and performance measuring tools to provide
	the improvements desired by IPC, TYMNET and ourselves.

4)  Third Party Position - Bert Novak

    Our president says it straight:  what is our significant business issue
    and the position of third party within ISG?  To go after the contracts
    internal to ISG and MDC.  There is a significant market and a greater
    savings to MDC and to ISG for Field Service Company.

    Read the current Field Goal for details.


-------- << 10-Jun-87 agenda >> --------

1) Old business
   a) Report on changes to systems 31 and 58
   b) Report on status of /B06
   c) Report on KI/KL for our use

2) more to be added here

-------- << 3-Jun-87 minutes >> --------

1)  Decide which monitor version to run in Fremont.
    o   Decided to create P035/B06 from /B03-3 (nothing from /B04 or /B05
    except to include the DDT patches for bug fixes).


2)  Move to South Bay Center
    a)  Determine phone requirements
	o   2 phone lines in KL and VAX reference areas for outdial modems.
	o   2 phone lines with modems into the micronet at the Lab site.

    b)  Determine async requirements
	o   Need a new diagram showing micronet terminal concentrator(s)
	    connected to rest of micronet on N 1st.

3)  Computing resources
    a)  Put 2020's on dispatch.
	o   Codes are XMR4257 and XMR4267 for new KS and X95 respectively.

    b)  Acquire KI10 system in Bldg. C for swing machine.
	o   Rumor has it that Dallas said they would provide a test KI.

4)  AT&T Conversion
    a)  Report on recommendation
	o   Report ran out of time.  Briefly, the problem areas are numerous
	    and the recommendations are to implement a billing conversion for
	    TOPS-10 to St. Louis service billing instead of converting the
	    applications to TYMCOM-X.

    b)  Will IPC fund TOPS10 accounting development?
	o   A good question.  We will see...


-------- << 3-Jun-87 agenda >> --------

1) Decide which monitor version to run in Fremont.

2) Move to South Bay Center
   a) Determine phone requirements
   b) Determine async requirements

3) Computing resources
   a) Put 2020's on dispatch.
   b) Acquire KI10 system in Bldg. C for swing machine.

4) AT&T Conversion
   a) Report on recomendation
   b) Will IPC fund TOPS10 accounting development?

  GO$¶