Proposed /D monitor enhancements

    A.  Performance changes

	1.  Close without wait, Validate RIB without wait (TITO speedup)

	    This change is intended for increased speed for programs that
	    perform mass copying from one area to another and restart at
	    a known reference point when a failure occurs.  System backup
	    and recovery procedures should benefit.

	    Details of implementation include permitting RIB validation in
	    the PCBIO section of the monitor to proceed without waiting for
	    completion such as file page validation is permitted in normal
	    paging I/O.  The CLOSE UUO would use common code with the
	    validate RIB function after I/O has been completed to disk.

	2.  SYSDVF function to read additional monitor tables

	    This is intended as an improvement for performance monitoring
	    tools in order to read an entire table of information in a single
	    read function instead of one word at a time incurring very costly
	    system overhead in order to monitor machine usage.

	    Implementation details include modifying an existing function
	    to return an entire monitor table to the requesting user in the
	    same manner as entire DDB and UDB records are passed.  In this
	    implementation tables which are not readily accessible via the
	    GETTAB function would be made available. (eg. CTYBUF, SAXBUF)

	3.  Contiguious file page creation (without double charging)

	    It appears that in implementing the kernel routines for VMOVPG
	    contigious file page creation was broken.  This modification will
	    re-implement the previously existing feature.  The main benefit
	    is faster loading of files to and from disk.

	    Implementation involves utilizing the sweep/fill code to allocate
	    additional pages on disk and locating the source of the double
	    charging for disk acceses using this code.

	4.  Virgin page bit for .CHMFP/.CHSMP chanio calls (ASP speedup)

	    This feature will prevent the monitor from reading a page from
	    disk just to zero it out when mapping it to user space.  The user
	    will still receive a zeroed out page, but no disk read will be
	    necessary.  No security is lost, because at present the data in
	    specified page would have been readable (had the user not just
	    wanted a page to scribble in).

	    In implementation this means that the routines which map pages
	    from the disk would set the virgin bit in the LMAP slot which
	    signals the monitor to VCREATE a page of zeroes in memory at the
	    specified address instead of reading the page from disk.  The
	    page is assigned the proper disk address and when unmapped it
	    will replace the disk page.  In the case of super-map, programs
	    such as ASP would realize an increase in speed because the data
	    would be transferred only once per page between memory and disk.


    B.  SUBMIT-XEXEC changes

	1.  Notice in child indication

	    This would be allow XEXEC to determine which child has received
	    NTQ (notice to quit) from TAKEIT or another job and to process
	    that job accordingly.  At present it is impossible to determine
	    the difference between a ZAP/LOGOUT and receiving NTQ.

	    Implementation would entail setting a bit in JBTST2 when NTQ is
	    received and reporting NIC to the parent.  The EVICT UUO uses a
	    new flag bit to actually EVICT the child without notifying the
	    parent.

	2.  Enable/Disable for individual licenses

	    This feature would allow a job to be created with license that
	    has been validated (via OPER or .FOCFM) but not currently enabled.
	    The Enable and Disable commands would allow the user to turn on
	    or off various license capabilities without having to respecify
	    the validation information.  As such, batch jobs can have a
	    pre-validation done by the SUBMIT program and the user may set
	    or clear various licenses without putting passwords into control
	    files.  The feature will make setting various licenses easier for
	    the interactive user, so they may enable only the license needed
	    for a particular function.

	    Implementation involves keeping a GETTAB table of license names,
	    values and a byte pointer to the license field.  (See below).  The
	    current SETLIC UUO functions for process license would pertain to
	    frame license as well with JBTSLC holding the saved license for
	    both the process and the frame.

	    LICTBL: Point 1,'WC '!1,18		; Write Core
		    Point 1,'RC '!1,19		; Read Core
		    Point 1,'OP '!1,20		; Operator
		    Point 1,'SY '!1,21		; Systat
		    Point 1,'GD '!1,22		; Get Devices
		    Point 1,'TD '!1,23		; Transfer Devices
		    Point 1,'ST '!1,24		; Structures
		    Point 1,'HF '!1,25		; Home Files (Write)
		    Point 1,'JL '!1,26		; Jacct-Login
		    Point 1,'AC '!1,27		; Aux Circuit
		    Point 1,'XC '!1,28		; eXchange Charges
		    Point 1,'QM '!1,29		; Queue Manager
		    Point 1,'HR '!1,30		; Home Read
		    Point 1,'-- '!0,31		; --Unused--
		    Point 2,'RP '!1,33		; Read in Project
		    Point 2,'RF '!2,33		; Read Files
		    Point 2,'RA '!3,33		; Read Absolute
		    Point 2,'WP '!1,35		; Write in Project
		    Point 2,'WF '!2,35		; Write Files
		    Point 2,'WA '!3,35		; Write Absolute


	3.  Batch job indicator

	    This would provide a way for TAKEIT and other programs to tell
	    the difference between any normal "child" and a batch job.  Some
	    CUSPS could then do intelligent things knowing that a user is not
	    available and typing things such as "Do you really want to?" are
	    somewhat meaningless.  Some commands could be restricted if they
	    are issued from a batch job (eg. LOGOUT, EXIT, DETACH, etc.).

	    Implementation would provide a bit in the .FOCFM call to which is
	    copied to the sign bit of JBTST2.  XC license (JL,WC) is required.
	    LOGIN/LOGOUT accounting records could also contain an indicator so
	    that "deferred" or "batch-job" charges/discounts may apply.


    C.  Once only changes

	1.  REFSTR for the 2020s (in /B05 and /X01)

	    These changes are to make the 2020 boot structure the same as
	    the KI/KL/F3 structure.  Pages in (SYS)HOME.SYS are now in the
	    same places on all processors.

	    Implementation was pretty simple in REFSTR and ONCE/ONCDSK.  The
	    major problem was divorcing FEFILE.SYS from HOME.SYS and setting
	    up a pointer per/unit for the file.  Further study indicates that
	    FEFILE.SYS be a structure-wide pointer rather than unit-specific.

	2.  INITIA and NOINITIA startup flags

	    This feature will enable operations to bring up the system during
	    the rebuild process running a DSKCLN but not running any of the
	    other startup jobs.  This may depend upon INITIA and the .DSKCL
	    forced command working in co-operation with each other.

	    Implementation will be setting flag in ONCE similar to CONSOLE
	    and NETWORK (with INITIA as default).  TTYINI will only setup the
	    proper commands on each line depending on the flag setting.  The
	    .DSKCL command will always be set except in MANUAL or READONLY.
	    THe INITIA command will be set except as above and for NOINITIA.

	3.  Implementation of .DSKCLN and INITIA at startup

	    As previously mentioned these commands will be activated during
	    system startup.  This mechanism is meant to be cleaner than the
	    current mechansm which runs INITIA on all startup ports and then
	    determines that DSKCLN should be run if this is port 0.  The new
	    .DSKCL command will run DSKCLN and may be set on any port/job.
	    For 2020's the option of having .KMCLO run prior to DSKCLN is
	    desired.  DSKCLN needs to be told to go into CHECK or CE mode to
	    perform additional structure checks.



    D.  Security

	1.  HR license (Home Read)

	    This license will work similar to HF with the exception that only
	    READ capability will be permitted.  HF will imply HR just as WF
	    currently implies RF.  No License will be required to set HR.  The
	    only restriction is that the user must be connected or have access
	    to the directory in which the file resides.

	    Implementation will be to check all HF references in the monitor
	    and add checks for HR to allow read access.  In addition, any time
	    a read access is required and RF is checked, if the directory is
	    the same as the FPN, HR should be checked.  This also includes the
	    implied HR access from HF.

	2.  SETE -1 UUO for TITO operator license

	    This feature will provide operations with the capability to do
	    the normal TITO file restore without losing license due to not
	    having the proper license set.  This will allow us to remove the
	    license that operations has just for file restoration and permit
	    better control of their privileges.

	    Implementation would involve a special SETE slot (-1) which will
	    not be usable except with the SETE UUO.  Other restrictions will
	    apply, such as the username "OPER" and a public-key password that
	    TITO ead to determine oper validations.  We'd like something
	    that changes at least daily internally even if the end result is
	    the same.  Hackers beware!

	3.  SETE command in the monitor (see ENABLE/DISABLE)

	    This will remove the hazard of having to reload the system when
	    the structure is in an unstable state, just to obtain license to
	    do the work necessary to fix the unstable structure.


    E.  Accounting

	1.  Batch job indicator, deferred charges

	    Changes should be made to the LOGINN and LOGOUT records written
	    to the accounting stream to indicate that a job is a batch job
	    as designated by the batch bit in JBTST2.  This may not matter to
	    the monitor an may be a change to the LOGINN and LOGOUT cusps.

	    The CHKPNT program shopuld also be modified at the same time to
	    indicate batch jobs in the check-point records it generates.
	    This will allow stream reading programs and accounting programs
	    to detect batch jobs which span multiple accounting files.


    F.  Host/Base fixes (SCNSER improvements)

	1.  Eliminate crashes when Base is reset

	    Make the base re-synch code smarter so that it may determine
	    which version of the base code it is dealing with and re-synch
	    without crashing when the base is restarted.

	2.  Eliminate crashes as seen on system B39

	    The symptoms on system 39 require more research and probably a
	    grip on generating our own base code.  (If system 39 is really
	    going away at the end of 4Q '87 then this may be a waste of our
	    resources.)


    G.  Segment modifications

	1.  Non 400000 high segments, via segment start address table

	    Introduce JBTSEG which contains segment specific information
	    including the start address of the high segment if any.

	2.  EXE files for full mapping capability

	    Teach SEGCON how to setup JBTSEG and an initial UPT based on
	    the contents of the EXE file directory for .EXE files.  It may
	    fall out that an in-core page map could be constructed which
	    may then be used to remember frequently used programs or high
	    segments.  Using this technique the following capabilities
	    could decrease the I/O incurred by repetedly reading the RIB
	    of a file when loading or executing programs from disk.

	    a.  SAV files expanded to C-O-W pages
		Pages never referenced need not occupy physical memory.

	    b.  SHR files marked R-O or C-O-W if SETUWP enabled
		Pages would be shared automatically and private copies would
		be made whenever a user needed to "write" on pure shared code.
		(This happens now, but the mechanism may change somewhat.)

	    c.  SWR files marked R-W for all pages
		(See b above.  Listed separately so that we do not FORGET the
		 distinction between .SHR and .SWR files.)

	    d.  Monitor able to produce R-W or C-O-W/private pages
		(Again, this happens now, but EXE files require these to be
		 created and shared for ranges of zero-compressed pages).

	3.  WSAVE command to create .SWR and .LOW (until full EXE)

	    In order to implement .SWR fully, the monitor needs to create
	    .SWR files just as it creates .SHR and .HGH files.


    H.  2020 specific changes

	1.  Fixup the LOAD PREBOOT areas for SMFILE and SMMON

	    Create page 0 on each unit with the proper information to point
	    to SMFILE and SMMON (for diagnostic booting) so that diagnostics
	    may be stored on a TYMCOM-X system pack without interfering with
	    the system.  This is all documented in the 2020 reference manual.
	    TYMCOM-X currently supports only the system PREBOOT area.

	2.  Fix page fail for unibus timeout (UBGOOD) for KMC,LPT

	    Add UBGOOD routine which traps unibus timeout errors and causes
	    an error return rather than a page fail STOPCD for missing KMC-11
	    or LPT (and any other devices on the unibus).  This will allow
	    the monitor to run in CONSOLE mode even without a working KMC-11
	    and allow an LPT to be defined when one does not exist.

	3.  Make MANUAL mode reload the KMC (if present)

	    Modify the startup code to issue .KMCLOD if the system is to be
	    brought up in any mode other than CONSOLE.  If the mode is not
	    MANUAL then issue .DSKCLN next.  If the mode is INITIA then the
	    INITIA command should be issued after the successful completion
	    of DSKCLN.

    I.  Increase maximum device specification

	1.  More than 127 frames

	    Increase the size of the frame field in the DDB.  There are two
	    major approaches to this.  a) increase to 8 or 9 bits remaining
	    in the same general location of the DDB.  b) Move this field to
	    a new location (possibly invalidating many programs which think
	    they know where to find this information in the DDB).  In either
	    case, some programs may need to be modified to run under the new
	    monitor.  This will need to be examined in more detail.

	2.  More than 255 ports

	    Change the TTY DDB configuration macros to permit a larger number
	    of ports.  The actual maximum is 256 per base and not 256 total.
	    This permits 256 on the network base, 256 PTYs and 256 hard-wire
	    terminals if we wish to implement this third category.  This new
	    "category" would permit the CTY to be a port on the internal base
	    and allow ports on the DZ-11s on 2020s at the same time.  It is
	    also the start of segmenting SCNSER so that TYMNET support could
	    be extracted and inserted as a driver for TOPS-10 or TOPS-20.

    J.  Rewrite COMCON command scanner to check batch bit

	This is part of a rewrite of the command scanner to remove the current
	confusing set of ranges for various types of commands to determine the
	validitiy based on command mode (i.e. PDP10, XEXEC, XEXECJ, SUDS).


    K.  Variable UFD hash constants for each UFD

	A default hash size would exist per structure and individual UFDs
	would contain the proper hash size in the RIB and DRB [NMB,UFB].  The
	purpose of variable hash sizes would be faster file search for users
	that have large numbers of files (such as TYMNET, SOURCE, etc.).

	Codes may exist for each structure to indicate the actual hash size
	since it is apparent that various prime numbers work best for hashing
	algorithms and a smaller field in the UFD could be used.


    L.  Bug fixes to /C and previous monitors

	1.  (bug)   ECC error recovery on 3652 does not appear to work
	2.  minor   Reformat CPU status block typeout to include AR/ARX
	3.  (bug)   CPXKON vs 3675 blocks
	4.  (new)   Include all addressable core in dump, %UPS in particular


    M.  /D modifications already completed

	1.  /C01
	    a.  Put $END macros at end of all modules.
	    b.  Re-instated code in /A14 that had been removed for /B.
	    c.  Re-instated code in /B04 that had been removed for /B05.
	    d.  Fix ADD-PACK code to add SPAGES/SWAP.SYS pages properly.

	2.  /C02
	    a.  Change SEND command to run SENDMA from SYS.
	    b.  Fixed KAF in CORE1 at NXTWS2 when all pages are paged out.
	    c.  Device errors on nonremovable disks now go into BAT pages.
	    d.  SAXINY assumes 1st kontroller instead of printing messages.
	    e.  Don't charge double when SIMIO writes contiguious pages.
    \ù